(upbeat music)
All right, now we're going to dive into
one more method that you'll probably use
all the time,
and that's the "prevent default" method
on your event.
As well as we're going to dive into
working with forms,
and stuff like that.
Because this is pretty common stuff
that you're going to be doing,
along with clicks and hovers and stuff like that.
A lot of your time working with events
will probably be surrounded in your forms and inputs
and things like that.
So we have this forms JS and R29 events folder,
as well as forms JS,
which should be empty,
you can close...
You can close everything down there.
Let's just console.log "IT WORKS"
Make sure
it works.
Let's see.
It works, okay cool.
So let's first talk about Prevent Default.
Now there's a couple
elements
in HTML
that have default functionality
when they're clicked
or when they're used.
So if you think of something,
like maybe let's just put a link in there.
And if we were to go to
wesbos.com
Wes Bos
Now if I were to go ahead and click on that,
obviously it brings me to
wesbos.com, right?
That's not that big of a surprise.
However, what you can do is you can
stop the default action
of the browser,
if you want to then pick it up from
from JavaScript.
So we can maybe give that a class,
"wes,"
You go in here and select it.
And we can listen for a click on "wes."
So "wes.addEventListener"
listen for a click,
and when that runs,
we'll run a function,
which has our event,
and then inside there we'll log our event.
Now watch this.
Ready?
Click it.
For a split second you see the event there,
and then everything is gone, because I've changed over
to my website.
If that ever happens to you,
this is sort of an aside,
if that ever happens to you where
you're trying to log something,
but it changes really quickly,
you can click on the little "cog" icon,
and click on "preserve log."
And what that will do is
you can log something,
and then it will say
"You changed the page."
and then go ahead and
have any JavaScript errors or warnings.
Looks like there's a whole bunch going on here.
(laughs)
Holy smokes!
For that specific website.
And then if you go back,
it will tell you "You navigated back."
So sometimes you need to turn that on
if the console logs are disappearing quicker,
then I can.
So that's the
default of a link is to change the page,
however, if you call event.preventDefault,
what that will do is it will prevent
the default thing of that element
from happening.
In our case, the link is going to change.
So now, if I go to it,
and I click on this link,
(mouse clicking)
nothing happens because the default of a link is to change,
so what we can do in that case is we could console.log.
You clicked it.
We could console.log...
I'll give you an example where this might be helpful.
So go to it,
you clicked it,
and maybe you want to ask the user for
some specific information before they
changed to that thing.
So you could,
and I know I've told you not to use prompt,
but this is one case you would use prompt,
you say "const should change page"
is equal to "prompt
"This website might be malicious.
"Do you wish to
"proceed?"
So now what happens is,
actually maybe we'll console.log that.
Console.log
"Should change page."
So now I click on it.
It says "This website might be --"
Oh it's not "prompt" it's "confirm!"
I don't care about...
(laughs)
If you type in "Yes, sure" into there,
no of course that's not what we want to do.
We want to use "confirm."
Now let's go ahead and try it.
"May be malicious. Do you wish to proceed?"
You can "cancel" or "okay."
And that will either give you a true
or a false.
Actually what we can do,
is we move the "preventDefault" to the top,
and then we can say
"if
should change page,"
then
we will say "window
.location
is equal to
"event.currentTarget
.href" or H ref
Because that will give us the URL.
And watch this.
There.
Cancel.
Goes nowhere.
Click "okay" it will actually change the page for us.
Another way that we could do that is we could
simply
move this preventDefault
into here.
And say
"if we should NOT change page."
So "should change page" will be true.
So if we should not change the page,
then we'll just prevent the default.
In that case you don't have to mess with window.location,
or anything like that.
So now if we click on it.
Cancel.
It prevents default.
Okay, it does nothing,
and we continue to change the page.
So preventing default is extremely handy for when you wish
to stop the default thing from happening.
So what other sort-of defaults are there
on a page?
Probably another common one that I specifically use is
submitting a form element.
So we could go into our form here,
and give our form a...
Let's give it a name.
The best way to grab onto your form is probably
by giving it a name,
rather than a class.
And we'll call that a signup.
And we'll go ahead and select that.
So const signupform is equal to document.querySelector
and if we want to select something based on it's name,
you use an attribute selector.
This is standard in CSS as well.
You say the name is equal to signup.
You notice I'm using double quotes there,
because I use single in my selector.
Then we take the sign-up form,
and we add an event listener,
and now instead of listening for a click,
we listen for an event that's called the
"submit" event.
And when somebody submits a form,
this event will fire,
and give us access to the form.
So we can take a function here,
that will give us the event,
and then we can,
let's just console.log the event.
Obviously it's gonna go away really quickly,
so if you want to be able to log that,
we can call it event.preventDefault,
just to stop the default of the form from submitting.
You'll see that that's actually,
they put it in the URL here as query params,
that's the default how form works,
and more often then not you actually don't wanna
submit the form to a server side,
but you wanna stop it from submitting.
You wanna stop it from submitting.
Grab those details with JavaScript and continue on.
So now if we go ahead and run it.
Maybe, whenever I'm working with forms,
I like to just give it a default value,
so I'm not having to type in every single time.
So, we'll say value,
is equal to Wes Bos
and email value is equal to wesbos@gmail.com.
There we go.
Now when I submit it,
(rapid mouse clicking)
Nothing is happening,
including all of the things that we talked about earlier,
like prevent default,
like stop propagation,
et cetera, et cetera.
Now, what can we do with that?
Well, we could check that the terms and conditions
is checked or not.
If that's the case.
Of course you can just put on required attributes
on to the input boxes.
With something like this we take it,
we just type "required."
Now if you try to submit it,
it gives you that little error,
but in some cases you want to do
some extended validation.
And if that's the case, we could check...
Maybe we want to make sure the person's name is not,
I don't know, I'm gonna offend somebody here,
Chad.
We don't want any Chads submitting our form, right?
So what we could do
is we could grab the name.
So we wanna grab the name
input.
So if we console.log,
event.currentTarget,
we'll see the form that we have.
If we console.dir it,
are you able to see...
You're able to see the form here,
and you'll see that we actually have properties
inside
of this
for each of our inputs.
So we have a name input,
and somewhere on here we'll have
an email input as well.
And that's kind of cool because there's
two ways we could grab the specific fields from
within it.
We could just console.log
event.currentTarget.name
and .email.
You see those two different input boxes,
and we can take it a step further and tag on
.value onto the end.
And that will give us the raw values
of what are in those input boxes.
And the reason why those are available to us
is because
the inputs
have
a name attribute on them.
A name of name,
and a name of email,
and there should be another one with the name of agree.
Let's try that.
On
Oh, it's not value,
it's checked when it's a check box.
So checked.
And then that gives us true
if it's checked or not.
So that's probably the easiest way to grab
elements inside of a form.
But we could have also done something like this,
where we see event.currentTarget.querySelector.
And then you can select it based on anything you want,
like a name is equal to email,
type is equal to email,
a specific class on it.
But there is no reason to actually run query selector
if you are using proper names.
And that's all the more reason to use valid semantic
HTML by giving your inputs
a proper name.
Which is great!
(mouse clicking)
Now we can say "If"
We could put this name in...
Let's get rid of all this.
We'll say "const name is equal to
"event.currentTarget.name.value
"if your name includes
"Chad."
Is it "includes" or "contains?"
I think it's "contains."
Then
alert
"Sorry bro"
We then can event.preventDefault
inside of there.
So now we'll go ahead and submit it
with Wes.
It just refreshes the page,
and it submits that data.
But if my name was Chad,
(mumbles) actually here.
It's still...
(rapid mouse clicking)
Names not contains is not a function.
Oh maybe it is includes.
(mouse clicking)
Sorry bro.
One kinda interesting thing,
this is a bit of an aside,
but if I do capital C,
Chad,
and submit it,
you'll see that it still works.
And that's because a string includes
is not case-sensitive.
And if you do want to be case-sensitive,
which you have to use something called a regex,
I'm sure we'll go into that in the future,
and that allows you to do case insensitivity
with includes.
Let's talk about other types of events with
form inputs.
We have, we have keyup,
we have keydown,
we have
focus,
we have blur,
we have a whole bunch of different types of elements,
and what we can actually do is,
let's take that name input,
so
we take the signupForm,
let's console.log the signupForm,
comment these out for just a second,
make sure we got the form.
Good.
And if we take the name input,
that gives us the name input,
so that's the element right there,
we can just listen for events right on there,
no need to select it.
So signupForm.name.addEventListener,
and we're going to listen for the keyup event,
and then we have a function...
Actually, let's make a function here
called logEvent.
And then we just put an event here.
And in here we can just console.log,
let's just say event.type,
and then we can run logEvent on keyup.
You see, now that it's,
whenever I keyup,
it's telling me that it runs the keyup event.
We can also log the event.currentTarget.value,
(mouse clicking)
And this will give us both the name of the event,
as well as what the user has typed in there.
And that's kind of cool,
because...
So if you don't want certain letters,
or certain numbers,
being allowed in a specific input,
then we can simply just prevent the default from happening,
and that would be on a keydown, actually,
so let's duplicate this over.
And say keydown.
I'm going to press my T key,
and you see that we got a keydown...
T key, that's a funny word.
We got a keydown event,
and a keyup event,
and it tells us,
at the keydown event,
it will tell us what the current one is,
and at the keyup event it will tell us
what the value is.
We also have focus and blur,
so let's do that.
Focus and blur is basically just when you focus into an
input, and when you focus out of it,
same with tabbing,
it will trigger a focus and a blur event,
as you go in and out of...
And that can be used for showing styling,
or recording information about how long people spend
on specific inputs.
Pretty handy little events there.
There's a couple of other events around
the different form elements that we'll go into.
But those are the big ones that I find myself using
most often.